Theory - Anywhere where we check if something is in a list, we can replace that with a set, as long as order doesn’t
matter.
Rationale - We noticed that in our rename sheet stress test profiles, a helper function
__get_cells_containing_sheetname makes up the entirety of the time when the stress test is run. 
Outcome - This change was a 2.6% improvement in week 2 stress tests, but it did not speed up our performance from
week 4 stress tests. Thus, we considered this to be a failed experiment. 

Theory - In our rename sheet operation, we iterate through the spreadsheet twice. First, we check which cells contain
the old sheet name. We then update these cells. Then we check the spreadsheet for cells that have the new sheet name
but weren’t originally in that list.
Rationale - We noticed that in our rename sheet stress test profiles, a helper function
__get_cells_containing_sheetname makes up the entirety of the time when the stress test is run. We didn’t think this
would be an issue but were curious because in the cProfile, we noticed this function getting called twice.
Outcome - This led to a 12% improvement for our project 4 stress tests. 

Theory - Our set cell contents function currently runs tarjan's algorithm twice. We added this after implementing
conditionals in the last project to handle the case if updating a cell’s value changes which argument is evaluated
in a conditional function in a separate cell. Then, the second Tarjan's algorithm correctly identifies any circular
references.
Rationale - In our load workbook stress test profiles, set_cell_contents takes up the entirety of the time during the
stress test. In general, set cell contents is called in many different functions. Our solution is to set a flag which
detects if any of the cells encountered in the output of the first Tarjan's run is a “lazy evaluate” function. If not,
then it is not necessary to run the second iteration of Tarjan’s.
Outcome - This led to a 1% improvement for our project 4 stress tests. 

Theory - Similar to the above performance improvement, we run tarjan’s algorithm twice when it is not necessarily
necessary. Another improvement is to set a flag that detects the presence of a “lazy evaluate” function during the
first Tarjan’s algorithm run, negating the need to iterate through the output of the first Tarjan’s run which our
previous solution does.
Rationale - In our load workbook, move and other stress test profiler data, set_cell_contents takes up the
entirety/majority of the time during the stress tests. In general, set cell contents functionality is utilized in
many of our implementations and called in many different functions. 
Outcome - This did not improve our project 4 stress tests but led to a 30% improvement in our project 2 stresstests.